+++
date = '2025-08-31T15:40:01+10:00'
draft = true
title = 'Class 1'
tags = ['bjj']
+++

This is going to be a running series where I note down what it's like to do BJJ
as a complete beginner and my thoughts along the way.

# Why I Started 

I want to have the skills to defend myself and others if absolutely nessesary.
Which in return I believe boosts confidence levels, and it's pretty fucking
cool.

I've tried Muay Thai and didn't feel it was for me at the time, may revisit it
in the future.

# First Class

On the drive to the place I was pretty nervous, didn't really know what to
expect, my knowledge of how BJJ operates was very limited. I had only watched
the sport a handful of times in my life, nothing of recent. 

As I walked in was greeted by the instructors, super friendly guys and I felt
the nervousnous slowly die down. There were some people on the mats doing some
stretches so I joined in. More people rolled in as the time came closer to the
start of the class.

Once the class began we started by doing some drills, I basically just copied
what the others were doing, and I don't really know what the drills are called
as of writing, but
[this video](https://youtu.be/OXAEEGPuhaM?si=IwXbWZ57Hx1qGNvI) sums it up. 

After the drills, the instructors began demonstrating a technique for
positioning to get an arm-bar and similar kinds of submissions. I won't go into 
details on how it's performed because I can't really explain it yet.
After the instructors demonstrated the moves a couple times
we paired up and started practising what we learnt. The person I was training
with had a couple years experience and was understanding it was my first class,
a common theme I have found.

Finally came the 'rolling' section of the class, where you are attempting to 
perform techniques on a fully risisting opponent. The instructors told me I 
didn't have to do this being my first class but the other students in the class
encouraged me to give it a go. I litterally had no idea what to do, so I just
naturally tried to perform what I learnt, which did not work.. I was thrown
around a bit and put up some resistance, but ultimently was submitted. This was
the theme for the rest of the class. Interestingly I thought I would feel kind 
of defeated by being submitted so many times, but I felt the opposite, I feel
this is due to the ego in the room being close to zero, everyone is super 
respectful.

At the end of the class we all shook hands and slowly made our way out. On the
drive home, and for the next day or so, I could not wait to do a second class.

I really like the format of the classes so far, in a sense you are thrown into
the deep end, but that also means you learn fast. You're also not repeating the
same moves over and over again which I like personally.
